Based on Debian: Pengwin is built on top of Debian, a stable and widespread Linux distribution with a large user base and extensive software library.
Pengwin includes wslu, a set of useful open-source utilities for interacting between WSL and Windows. (wslusc, wslsys,  wslfetch,  wslvar,  wslview,  wslact,  wslclip, wslgsu)
A custom pengwin-setup tool, accessible via $ pengwin-setup, allows new Pengwin users to get started on Linux immediately.
Compatible with Windows 11/10 with the latest version of WSL and WSLg.
Turn systemd on/off via pengwin-setup. Supports SystemD even without the Store version of WSL.
Support for many Linux graphical applications with no need to configure DISPLAY in Pengwin, even on WSL 1.
Built-in support for GPU acceleration and GPU video acceleration without custom repos, environment variables, or user groups.
Install via pengwin-setup a complete desktop environment based on Xfce, accessible directly from the Windows start menu.
For WSL 1, pengwin-setup will automatically install and configure VcXsrv or can configure X410 for GUI applications.
With full high dpi compatibility, pengwin-setup will adjust the environment for you.
Create Windows Start Menu items from Linux desktop apps, even on WSL 1.
Install your favorite Linux terminal: Konsole, Terminator, Tilix, etc.
You can access your Windows home directly from your Linux one via the winhome symbolic link.
Deploy a one-click LAMP stack.
We have handcrafted a Windows Terminal profile for a pleasant experience.
Install the most popular development environments (python, node, ruby, java, .Net, etc.) with version managers like (pyenv, n, rbenv, sdkman, etc) with pengwin-setup.
Be ready for the cloud, installing Kubertenes, Terraform, Azure CLI, AWS CLI, etc. via pengwin-setup
You can set up Pengwin to start at Windows logon without showing a Window, check the App Settings of Pengwin in the Settings Windows app.
Regular updates: Pengwin is actively developed and updated, with regular releases that include bug fixes, security updates, and new features.
Support: Pengwin has a strong community of users and developers who provide support and resources for troubleshooting issues and getting the most out of the distribution.
